hey there my name is jay i'm one of the
expert ielts teachers here at e2
language let's take a look
at a tricky reading task it's one that
sort of bamboozled me when i did it
it's called match sentence endings it's
for academic
and general training okay
so this is what it looks like on test
day
first of all you have a passage of text
which you will have to read
then you have this weird looking
question here it's like what you've got
uh
the first part of a sentence here and
you've got all of these
endings of sentences here of which there
are
more than the start of the sentence this
one's a bit confusing right
by the end of this video you'll not only
know what this all means but hopefully
you'll also be able to get them right
cool let's take a look at some tips so
the questions come in order so when you
find the answer for number one
number two will come after that in the
text and number three will follow
that one in the text there are always
more
endings than sentence beginning so here
here are the beginnings of the sentences
and here as you can see there are nearly
twice as many
endings if you're taking the computer
delivered test you'll be dragging
and dropping the endings to the
beginnings of the sentences
and if you're doing the paper delivered
test you're going to be writing the
correct
letter onto the answer sheet so it might
be like
number 1 e 2c etc
ok let's take a look at a method so we
know how to approach
these types of questions and then we'll
do some practice
so the method is like this you want to
make sure you check the instructions
first of all you should always do that
with ielts reading
then you'll read the questions and
identify the keywords
you'll scan the text for the relevant
section
you'll read carefully then you'll choose
the answer
let's apply the method so check the
instructions it says
questions one to three complete each
sentence with the correct
ending a to e from the box below cool
bananas we can do that
so we want to read the questions and
identify key words
let's start with number one the
resonance of konigsberg
that is a good keyword konigsberg
then you're going to scan the text for
the relevant
section and remember that the first
question will obviously be at the top
so we look closely here and we can see
the
townsfolk of konigsberg and that's
pretty much a paraphrase of number one
there that says the resonance of
koningsberg
means the same thing so we know we're in
the right spot
then we're going to have to read
carefully okay let's read this it says
konigsberg is a town on the prega river
in modern day russia
in the river there are two islands which
are connected to the riverbanks by
seven bridges a traditional logic game
in the 1700s for the townsfolk
of konigsberg was to try to walk around
the town
only crossing each bridge once cool
hopefully you've understood that
because then what you're going to do is
choose the correct
ending of the sentence here so the
residents of konigsberg
thought the solution was straightforward
helped invent modern day network theory
would traverse the route to find the
solution
devised several methods to solve the
problem failed to solve the konigsberg
bridge problem the correct answer is
c here and the reason is because the
resonance of konigsberg
would traverse the route to find the
solution here it says here
here it says a traditional logic game in
the 1700s for the townsfolk of
konigsberg was to try to
walk around traverse the town only
crossing each bridge
once so basically what's happening is
that
says the same thing as that there
cool bananas i think you've got it
okay it's your turn but just before we
do
that if you need help with your ielts
test maybe you've taken the test before
and you didn't get the score you want
or you're about to take the test and
you're kind of concerned because you
don't know exactly what to do and you
haven't got any feedback
then you should check out e2language.com
you can sign up for free
and if you do want to upgrade you'll get
access to lots of live classes twice a
day seven days a week
feedback tutorials heaps of practice
content there's lots of stuff there for
you to check out and
improve your scores with cool now it's
your turn
okay you have three minutes to answer
number two and
number three
[Music]
okay let's take a look at the answers
here so
number two a number of experts and if
you look closely in the text there you
can see
a synonym or a paraphrase something that
says this
a similar thing many scientists so we
know we're in the right spot
let's read carefully it says it was an
extraordinarily difficult problem to
solve and became of great interest to
many scientists
who tried their best to find a solution
it wasn't until 1736
when a swiss mathematician named leonard
euler solved the problem
so which of those sentence endings
matches with that first part a number of
experts
the answer is e failed to solve the
konigsberg
bridge problem cool what about number
three
a swiss mathematician named leonard
euler
if we look closely in the text we can
see his name there
and if we read closely solve the problem
he proved mathematically that crossing
the same bridge only once was actually
impossible in order to prove his theory
he invented a
diagram that later became known as the
first network a revolution for the
modern world
and the beginning of a branch of
mathematics called network theory
the sentence ending that matches to
number three
is b so a swiss
mathematician named leonard euler helped
invent
modern day network theory
cool that's how you do match sentence
endings and as you can see
you probably need some practice at it
because you've got to get the hang of
the test
format then of course applying the
method is extremely helpful
so check out e2language.com and i'll see
you soon
[Music]
you